Because the generated domain model classes are slightly different than
the handwritten classes that we worked with earlier,
there are a few things slightly different when working with them.
Let's continue with the previous example, ps-jaxb-19-xjc.
Take a look at class MarshalExample.
First, let's look at the main method, at how we create the JAXBContext there.
In all the examples until now,
we have created the JAXBContext with the newInstance
factory method by passing PurchaseOrder.
class.
JAXB analyzes the class that we pass to it and then finds all the
other domain model classes that are referenced directly or
indirectly by the PurchaseOrder class.
Instead of passing the PurchaseOrder class,
we can also pass it the ObjectFactory class or the name of the
package that contains the domain model classes.
When you pass JAXB the package name,
it will look for the ObjectFactory class in the package and
find the domain model classes from there.
Let's now look at the createPurchaseOrder method.
The ObjectFactory class that was generated by xjc does not only contain a
factory method for the comment field of class Item,
it also contains factory methods to create instances of
all the other domain model classes.
In this example,
I've used these factory methods now instead of creating the objects directly.
This is not absolutely necessary because the only thing that these factory
methods do is create an object using new and returning it,
which you could just as well do yourself.
It is useful, though, for the comment field of class Item,
which is a JAXBElement.
The reason why you might want to use the factory methods for
the other objects as well is consistency,
but it's really a matter of personal preference.
Let's take a look at how we create the
XMLGregorianCalendar object for the orderDate field.
As I said before, XMLGregorianCalendar is a bit cumbersome to use.
It's an abstract class, so you can't instantiate it directly.
Instead, you need to use a different factory class,
class DatatypeFactory, to instantiate it.
This factory class has several factory methods named newXMLGregorianCalendar.
If you want to create an XMLGregorianCalendar set to the current date and time,
you have to pass that method a GregorianCalendar from package java.
util.
Finally, as you saw in the previous clip,
xjc generates a wrapper class for the list of items in the purchase order.
That makes it a bit more cumbersome to add items to the purchase order because
we first have to create an instance of the wrapper class,
then we have to add the items to the list inside the wrapper,
and then we have to add the wrapper to the purchaseOrder object. I can now run the example, and I get the expected XML as output.